DOCSP-37565: Run Command (#118)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/run-command.txt

.. meta::
   :keywords: administration, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use {+driver-short+}
to run a database command. You can use database commands to perform a
variety of administrative and diagnostic tasks, such as fetching server
statistics, initializing a replica set, or running an aggregation pipeline.

.. important:: Prefer Library Methods to Database Commands

   The library provides wrapper methods for many database commands.
   We recommend using these methods instead of executing database
   commands when possible.
   
   To perform administrative tasks, use the :mongosh:`MongoDB Shell </>`
   instead of {+driver-short+}. The shell provides helper methods
   that might not be available in the driver.
   
   If there are no available helpers in the library or the shell, you
   can use the ``db.runCommand()`` shell method or the driver's
   ``command()`` method, which is described in this
   guide.

.. _pymongo-execute-command:

Execute a Command
-----------------

You can use the ``command()`` method to run a database command. You must specify
the command and any relevant arguments. If the command is simple, these can be

> passed as strings. Otherwise, they can be passed as a ``dict``. 

Reviewer: [s] For clarity: 
```suggestion
passed as strings. Otherwise, they can be passed as a ``dict`` object. 
```

                    'ts': Timestamp(1730486145, 22), 
                    't': 227
                }, 
                'lastWriteDate': datetime.datetime(2024, 11, 1, 18, 35, 45), 
                'majorityOpTime': {
                    'ts': Timestamp(1730486145, 22), 
                    't': 227
                }, 
                'majorityWriteDate': datetime.datetime(2024, 11, 1, 18, 35, 45)
            }, 
            'maxBsonObjectSize': 16777216, 
            'maxMessageSizeBytes': 48000000, 
            'maxWriteBatchSize': 100000, 
            'localTime': datetime.datetime(2024, 11, 1, 18, 35, 45, 309000), 
            'logicalSessionTimeoutMinutes': 30, 
            'connectionId': 23889, 
            'minWireVersion': 0,
            'maxWireVersion': 21, 
            'readOnly': False, 
            'ok': 1.0, 
            '$clusterTime': {
                'clusterTime': Timestamp(1730486145, 22), 
                'signature': {
                    'hash': b"\x1a\xf7{>q%F\xc2\x89\x15\x13W29\x91\xaae'~\xe4", 
                    'keyId': 7379292132843978793
                }
            }, 
            'operationTime': Timestamp(1730486145, 22)
        }

> To find a link to a full list of database commands and corresponding

Reviewer: [s] Suggestion to edit for brevity: 
```suggestion
For a full list of database commands and corresponding
```

parameters, see the :ref:`Additional Information section
<pymongo-addtl-info-runcommand>`.

.. _pymongo-command-response:

Command Cursor
--------------

The ``command()`` method returns the result of the command that was run.
You can also use the ``cursor_command()`` method, which issues a MongoDB 
command and parses the response as a `CommandCursor <{+api-root+}pymongo/command_cursor.html#pymongo.command_cursor.CommandCursor>`__.
The ``CommandCursor`` can be used to iterate over command results.

The following example uses the ``cursor_command()`` method on the ``sample_mflix``
database. It runs the ``find`` command on the ``movies`` database to filter by

> documents in which the ``runtime``field has a value of ``11``.

Reviewer: Missing space is altering the formatting a bit:
```suggestion
documents in which the ``runtime`` field has a value of ``11``.
```

.. io-code-block::
    :copyable: true

    .. input:: /includes/run-command.py
        :language: python
        :dedent:
        :start-after: start-cursor-command
        :end-before: end-cursor-command

    .. output::
        :language: json
        :visible: false

        { 
            '_id': ObjectId('573a1390f29313caabcd42e8'),
            'runtime': 11, 
            'title': 'The Great Train Robbery',
            ...
        },
        {
            {'_id': ObjectId('573a1394f29313caabce0f10'),
            'runtime': 11, 
            'title': 'Glas',
            ...
        },
        ...

> Before you run a command, learn about the response format of the command so that

Reviewer: This direction feels a little incomplete without linking to a resource on this or including more info about responses.
